README.md, before:

This is the Qt Vulkan test bed - **now with 100% more threads**

The goal is to experiment with basic Vulkan enablers, focusing mainly on
getting Vulkan-rendered content into a QWindow, in order to have a more clear
view on what kind of (minimal) enablers could be added in Qt 5.9 and beyond.

Do not expect to see fancy demos here - there is no actual geometry rendering
in the examples yet, apart from clearing. However, QVulkanRenderLoop itself is
pretty complete and stable already.

==================================

This is a real Qt module. Build with qmake -r and make install. Applications
can then simply do QT += vulkan in their .pro files.

When building against a Vulkan SDK where the headers are not available in the
default search paths, do something like 'qmake -r VULKAN_INCLUDE_PATH=c:/VulkanSDK/1.0.17.0/include'
to specify the location of the Vulkan headers.

==================================

The main goal here is to demonstrate the model where the *dedicated*
submission/present thread gets throttled based on the vsync, while allowing
multiple frames in flight without pipeline stalls. (i.e. something that is
missing from the majority of "tutorials" out there)

To be as portable as possible, all Vulkan functions are resolved dynamically,
either via QLibrary or the device/instance-level getProcAddr, so no libs are
needed at link time.

Instead of the traditional QGLWidget, QOpenGLWindow, etc. model (i.e. paintGL)
we use a QVulkanRenderLoop that gets attached to a QWindow, and gets in turn a
QVulkanFrameWorker attached to it. The render loop runs its own dedicated thread
and this is the thread the worker's functions are invoked on. This is similar
the Qt Quick scenegraph's threaded render loop - except that the interface here
is asynchronous and the worker can also submit one or more command buffers from
additional worker threads if it wants to.

The number of frames prepared without blocking (1, 2, or 3) can be decided by
the application. The standard validation layer can be requested by setting the
appropriate flag. Without further ado, here's the API, it should be
self-explanatory:

```
class Q_VULKAN_EXPORT QVulkanFrameWorker
{
public:
    virtual ~QVulkanFrameWorker() { }
    virtual void init() = 0;
    virtual void resize(const QSize &size) = 0;
    virtual void cleanup() = 0;
    virtual void queueFrame(int frame, VkQueue queue, VkSemaphore waitSem, VkSemaphore signalSem) = 0;
};

class Q_VULKAN_EXPORT QVulkanRenderLoop
{
public:
    enum Flag {
        EnableValidation = 0x01,
        Unthrottled = 0x02,
        UpdateContinuously = 0x04,
        DontReleaseOnObscure = 0x08
    };
    Q_DECLARE_FLAGS(Flags, Flag)

    QVulkanRenderLoop(QWindow *window);
    ~QVulkanRenderLoop();

    void setFlags(Flags flags);
    void setFramesInFlight(int frameCount);
    void setWorker(QVulkanFrameWorker *worker);

    void update();

    // for QVulkanFrameWorker
    void frameQueued();
    QVulkanFunctions *functions();

    VkInstance instance() const;
    VkPhysicalDevice physicalDevice() const;
    const VkPhysicalDeviceLimits *physicalDeviceLimits() const;
    uint32_t hostVisibleMemoryIndex() const;
    VkDevice device() const;
    VkCommandPool commandPool() const;

    int swapChainImageCount() const;
    int currentSwapChainImageIndex() const;
    VkImage swapChainImage(int idx) const;
    VkImageView swapChainImageView(int idx) const;
    VkFormat swapChainFormat() const;
    VkImage depthStencilImage() const;
    VkImageView depthStencilImageView() const;
    VkFormat depthStencilFormat() const;

private:
    QVulkanRenderLoopPrivate *d;
};
```

================================

Currently only Windows and Linux (X11) are supported, and only
Windows has been tested in practice. Other WSIs will get added later on.

Note: NVIDIA drivers older than 368 are not recommended. For example, 365 was
unable to provide vsync and was always running unthrottled.

TODO:
  1. other WSIs
  2. issue some real draw calls in the example
  3. play a bit with shaders (SPIR-V, VK_NV_glsl_shader, etc.)
  4. more examples, more threads, more everything

Commit message:

Add a way to get 3 swapchain buffers instead of 2

README.md, after:

This is the Qt Vulkan test bed - **now with 100% more threads**

The goal is to experiment with basic Vulkan enablers, focusing mainly on
getting Vulkan-rendered content into a QWindow, in order to have a more clear
view on what kind of (minimal) enablers could be added in Qt 5.9 and beyond.

Do not expect to see fancy demos here - there is no actual geometry rendering
in the examples yet, apart from clearing. However, QVulkanRenderLoop itself is
pretty complete and stable already.

==================================

This is a real Qt module. Build with qmake -r and make install. Applications
can then simply do QT += vulkan in their .pro files.

When building against a Vulkan SDK where the headers are not available in the
default search paths, do something like 'qmake -r VULKAN_INCLUDE_PATH=c:/VulkanSDK/1.0.17.0/include'
to specify the location of the Vulkan headers.

==================================

Instead of the traditional QGLWidget, QOpenGLWindow, etc. model (i.e. paintGL)
we use a QVulkanRenderLoop that gets attached to a QWindow, and gets in turn a
QVulkanFrameWorker attached to it. The render loop runs its own dedicated thread
and this is the thread the worker's functions are invoked on. This is similar
the Qt Quick scenegraph's threaded render loop - except that the interface here
is asynchronous and the worker can also submit one or more command buffers from
additional worker threads if it wants to.

To be as portable as possible, all Vulkan functions are resolved dynamically,
either via QLibrary or the device/instance-level getProcAddr, so no libs are
needed at link time.

The number of frames prepared without blocking can be decided by the
application via setFramesInFlight(). Note however that by default the FIFO mode
is used, meaning the renderloop's thread will get throttled based on the vsync.
Pass Unthrottled to switch to mailbox mode instead. The swapchain uses 2
buffers by default, pass TrippleBuffer to request 3 instead. The standard
validation layer can be requested by setting EnableValidation. Without further
ado, here's the API, it should be self-explanatory:

```
class Q_VULKAN_EXPORT QVulkanFrameWorker
{
public:
    virtual ~QVulkanFrameWorker() { }
    virtual void init() = 0;
    virtual void resize(const QSize &size) = 0;
    virtual void cleanup() = 0;
    virtual void queueFrame(int frame, VkQueue queue, VkSemaphore waitSem, VkSemaphore signalSem) = 0;
};

class Q_VULKAN_EXPORT QVulkanRenderLoop
{
public:
    enum Flag {
        EnableValidation = 0x01,
        Unthrottled = 0x02,
        UpdateContinuously = 0x04,
        DontReleaseOnObscure = 0x08,
        TrippleBuffer = 0x10
    };
    Q_DECLARE_FLAGS(Flags, Flag)

    QVulkanRenderLoop(QWindow *window);
    ~QVulkanRenderLoop();

    void setFlags(Flags flags);
    void setFramesInFlight(int frameCount);
    void setWorker(QVulkanFrameWorker *worker);

    void update();

    // for QVulkanFrameWorker
    void frameQueued();
    QVulkanFunctions *functions();

    VkInstance instance() const;
    VkPhysicalDevice physicalDevice() const;
    const VkPhysicalDeviceLimits *physicalDeviceLimits() const;
    uint32_t hostVisibleMemoryIndex() const;
    VkDevice device() const;
    VkCommandPool commandPool() const;

    int swapChainImageCount() const;
    int currentSwapChainImageIndex() const;
    VkImage swapChainImage(int idx) const;
    VkImageView swapChainImageView(int idx) const;
    VkFormat swapChainFormat() const;
    VkImage depthStencilImage() const;
    VkImageView depthStencilImageView() const;
    VkFormat depthStencilFormat() const;

private:
    QVulkanRenderLoopPrivate *d;
};
```

================================

Currently only Windows and Linux (X11) are supported, and only
Windows has been tested in practice. Other WSIs will get added later on.

Note: NVIDIA drivers older than 368 are not recommended. For example, 365 was
unable to provide vsync and was always running unthrottled.

TODO:
  1. other WSIs
  2. issue some real draw calls in the example
  3. play a bit with shaders (SPIR-V, VK_NV_glsl_shader, etc.)
  4. more examples, more threads, more everything
